In this video we're going to be doing a couple more examples where we find that Prak primes of a number
by factoring the number.
So in this first example here we're going to factor AB into its product primes.
Now let's first talk about prime numbers.
Remember that a prime number is a number that's only divisible by 1 and itself.
So for example 2 is a prime number because I can divide it by two and I can divide it by 1 so I can
divide it by 1 and itself.
But there's no other number other than 1 and 2 that will go into two evenly.
Three is a prime number because I can divide it by 1 and I can divide it by three.
But there's no other number that will go into three evenly.
If I look at four here am for is not a prime number because of course I can divide it by itself for
I can divide it by 1 but I can also divide it by 2 when I divide it by 2.
I get two.
So four is not a prime number but five is a prime number because it's only divisible by 1 in itself.
Six is not prime because it's divisible by 1 in itself but it's also divisible by 3 and 2 7 is prime.
Eight is not prime 9 is not prime because it's visible by 1 and itself and by 3.
So you get the idea.
Those are prime numbers sort I want to do is factor this number completely until it's just the product
of all of its prime factors.
So here's what that looks like.
We can start anywhere so we know that AB is eight times 10.
We know that 80 is 20 times four.
We can start with any product that we know.
Let's just go ahead and start with eight times 10 and again it doesn't matter you always get the same
answer but we'll just start with eight times 10.
So 80 is the same thing as eight times 10.
So we write the factor of eight and the factor of 10.
What we want to do is keep factoring until we only have prime numbers left.
So is 8 a prime number.
It can be divided by four and by two in addition to 1 and itself.
So we have to keep factoring.
We know that eight is four times two.
So we'll say 4 times 2.
Now two is a prime number it's only divisible by 1 and itself but four is not 4 can also be divided
by two.
So we have to keep factoring here.
We know that 4 is 2 times 2.
And now we know 2 is a prime number so we have 2 2 and 2 we can't factor any further over here.
So let's go look at the 10 10 can be factored into 5 times 2 and 5 and 2 are both prime numbers.
They can only be divided by 1 and themselves.
So we have all prime numbers now.
So if we look at the end of each of these tree branches if you will only the bottom layer then we have
all of these numbers here.
These are the prime factors of 80.
And if you multiply two times five times two times two times two you'll get 80.
So we factored 80 into all of it's prime factors.
And now we want to write this as a product of primes.
You always want to list your factors in ascending order so you want your smallest factors first followed
by your larger factors so we have factors of two and factors of five.
So we want to write the factors of two first because two is smaller than five.
So we have four factors of 2 1 2 3 and 4.
So we can say two times two times two times two for factors of two and a factor of five.
So we can write it this way or we can use exponent and we can say since we have four factors of two
we can write this as two to the fourth times five.
And this is the product of primes for the number 80.
Let's look at another example here we have 147.
Sometimes it's helpful to look for prime numbers that can be divided into 147.
So if we start with the smallest prime number which is two we know two can't go into 147 because 147
is an odd number.
What about 3.
Well if we divide 147 by three we get 49.
So because three divides evenly into 147 we'll go ahead and say three and forty nine.
Now three is a prime number but 49 isn't because 49 can be divided by seven.
So we want to divide this into seven times seven we know 49 is the perfect square of seven and seven
is also a prime number.
So now we've actually reached the end of our factorization here.
And we just have three factors three times seven times seven.
We'll get you to 147.
So we want to list this as three times seven times seven.
Or because we have two factors of seven we can write it as three times seven squared.
And this is the product of primes for 147.